Unit 1: General Concepts and Units of Measurement
=================================================

**Note:** Though this unit is particularly heavy on theory, you do not
need to understand the details. Just try to get a general sense of
these concepts; we will revisit them to learn the details in later
units.

Theory: Circuits and Basic Units of Measurement
-----------------------------------------------

You have probably heard the terms "volts," "amperes," "ohms" and
"watts"; these are basic values of measurement of electromotive force,
current, resistance and power in electrical circuits. A circuit is a
set of components wired together that is both the basic unit of
analysis and the thing that does useful work in the electrical world.

Matter with an electric charge (measured in coulombs) exerts a force
on other charged matter around it; this ability to exert force is
energy and when it causes matter to be moved around (or heated) this
is called work. Electricity and electronics are all about pushing
around charged electrons in a circuit and harnessing this energy to do
work.

The useful work done by a circuit can take many forms. Some examples
are:

* Making a light bulb or LED light up, illuminating something you want
  to look at.
* Making a motor turn.
* Powering a chemical reaction that stores energy that can later be
  released through a reverse chemical reaction.
* Moving a speaker cone back and forth to reproduce sounds.
* Amplifying a weak electrical signal into one powerful enough to move
  the above speaker.
* Comparing two inputs and producing a signal that tells you whether
  they're the same or different.

In the last example the only work done from a physics point of view is
conversion of electricity to heat, but in fact the work we humans are
interested in is the information ("inputs are the same or different")
produced by this circuit. This is in fact the basis of all the
electronic computing devices we use today.

### Current and Voltage

The movement of charge through a circuit over time is called
**current**; one **ampere** (or "amp") is one coulomb of charge moving
past a given point in one second. The force that pushes this charge in
the circuit is electromotive force (EMF), also known as "potential,"
often called **voltage** after its unit, the **volt**. One volt
pushing a current of one ampere does one **watt** of work, giving us
our first equation $P = VI$, meaning that the power in watts equals
the EMF in volts times the current in amperes.[1] (We will look later
at an easy way of memorizing and using this equation.)

[1]: The _I_ for current comes from the French phrase the French
phrase intensité de courant; I is the symbol originally used by
André-Marie Ampère himself, after whom the ampere unit is named. You
may also sometimes see old people use the symbol E for voltage, which
comes from "electromotive force."

The astute amongst you will realize we still have not explained
exactly what is doing the pushing, _i.e._, what is creating this
voltage potential. That turns out to be a rather complex question to
answer, so for the moment we will just assume some sort of magic
(embodied in a "battery" or "power supply," as we soon shall see) is
pushing the current. How exactly they do that is beyond the scope of
this course but you can always find explanations online if you're
curious.

### Resistance

Isaac Newton said that "for every action there must be an equal and
opposite reaction," and this is just as true in electrical circuits as
in mechanics. Every electrical component has a certain (sometimes
varying) resistance to having current pushed through it; the voltage
pushing the current against this resistance is the energy that does
the work. In a particularly unimaginative moment we decided to call
this resistance, which is measured in ohms (also known by the symbol
Ω).

### Putting It All Together

So, within a circuit we have a **voltage** of _V_ volts, pushing a
current of _I_ amperes through a **resistance** of _R_ ohms. These all
interact with each other: increasing the voltage through a given
resistance increases the current flow (because the electrons are being
pushed harder); increasing the resistance reduces the current flow,
and if you see greater current flow someone must have increased the
voltage or reduced the resistance. This all comes together in our
other classic equation $V = IR$, expressing this relationship that the
EMF in volts is equal to the current in amperes times the resistance
in ohms. (Again, we'll see later easy ways of memorizing and using
this equation.) 


Practice: Resistor Color Codes
------------------------------

Let's leave all this theory for a moment and do something practical:
looking at the resistance of some real objects.

In the parts kit for this course there are several different
**resistors**, which are the basic electronic component that provides
resistance. These are "through-hole" resistors: cylinders with a lead
coming out of each end designed to be put through holes in a printed
circuit board and then soldered to the pads around the holes to make
an electrical connection. These resistors are marked with their
resistance values using the [Resistor Color Code][rcc] on colored bands
around them. These bands, read in the proper direction, indicate the
value and tolerance of the resistor, as per the following table.

[rcc]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronic_color_code

XXX

Resistors will almost invariably have four or five bands. If four,
these are the first two digits of the value, the multiplier (which you
can also think of as the number of zeros after the first two digits)
and the tolerance. If five, the first three bands will be the value,
followed again by the multiplier and the tolerance. For example:

* yellow-purple-red-gold
  = 4 7 $\times$ $10^2$ $\pm$ 5%
  = 4700 Ω, $\pm$ 5%
* brown-red-black-silver
  = 1 2 $\times$ $10^0$  $\pm$ 10%
  = 12 Ω, $\pm$ 10%
* yellow-orange-black-yellow-brown
  = 4 3 0 $\times$ $10^4$  $\pm$ 1%
  = 4,300,000 Ω (4.3 MΩ), $\pm$ 1%

Determining in which direction to read a resistor can be tricky at
first. The two or three bands indicating the resistor value (digits
and multiplier) should be separated by small gaps, with a larger gap
between them and the tolerance, but you'll may find that a lot of
resistors appear to have the same gap between all bands. However:

From the table above you can see that silver and gold are used only
for tolerance bands, so if you see that colour at one end you know
which end is the tolerance band. 1% tolerance resistors usually have a
blue base color between the stripes rather than brown, giving you an
immediate hint that if there's a brown stripe at only one end, that's
the tolerance band. But some color combinations can give reasonable
values when read in either direction:

* brown-red-black-black-brown = 1 2 0 ✕ $10^0$ $\pm$ 1% = 120 Ω $\pm$ 1%
* brown-black-black-red-brown = 1 0 0 ✕ $10^2$ $\pm$ 1% = 10,000 Ω $\pm$ 1%

In this case, you'll have to look more closely for the larger gap or,
as we will see later, measure with a multimeter.


Lab: Reading Resistors
----------------------

You have a variety of different resistors in your course kit. (They
may come loose or in strips of the same value joined together at the
ends with tape.) For each resistor or strip, read and write down the
color code and the corresponding value and tolerance. Check someone
else's work and have someone else check yours. What kind of problems
did you encounter in reading the color code, and what kind of errors
did you make?

Examine the various resistance values you've written down. Can you
identify any common values or patterns in them? XXX hint E-numbers
